[MUSIC PLAYING]
SPEAKER 1: So today we're
going to talk about Lighthouse,
a tool for auditing your
progressive web apps and just
your general web
apps for performance
best practices, general
web dev best practices.
SPEAKER 2: I kind think of it
as like page speed insights,
but the newer, more
fanciful version.
SPEAKER 1: It's page speed
insights on steroids.
SPEAKER 2: Yeah.
That's a good way of putting it.
SPEAKER 1: But nice steroids.
OK.
So the first thing
that we're going to do,
we're going to dive right in.
Here we have a
progressive web app.
And we're going to use
the Lighthouse Chrome
extension on this.
So as soon as you've
got it installed,
you can go and click
on the extension
and run Generate Report.
Now what this is
going to do is it's
going to run through a number
of different gathering passes.
I'm going to check a bunch
of different audits out.
And it should hopefully generate
you a nice, cool-looking report
like that right off the bat.
SPEAKER 2: Yay.
SPEAKER 1: Now this is useful
for a few different reasons.
It'll check different
features, like do
you have support for something
meaningful when you're offline
or on flaky network connections?
Is your pagelet
performance fast?
It's got nice
tracking for things
like first meaningful
paint, input latency,
time to interactive.
Interactivity is sort of
really important these days
because a lot of times
when we're using libraries
or frameworks to
ship apps, we're
shipping large jobs or
bundles down the line.
Perhaps not chunking those
out as much as we can,
meaning that you can
render something on screen.
But it's not going to be
something the user can actually
interact with.
SPEAKER 2: Yeah.
And it's also got things
like it checks whether you've
got a web app manifest,
whether you're
defining certain
parameters in there, which
would allow people to
add a [INAUDIBLE] screen
or stuff like that.
One of the really
nice things with this
is, as the web kind of grows and
there's new APIs being added,
Lighthouse is a nice way of
keeping up to date with those.
Because they'll actually add
in checks for those things.
And if obviously you
haven't got them,
it'll highlight it for you.
So this is also one
way of just making sure
that you're a good solid web
app following best practices,
but also helps you stay
up to date with new things
as they land.
SPEAKER 1: Exactly.
So Lighthouse also
tracks best practices,
checks on accessibility.
But it's also possible
to write your own custom
audits for checking
your own best practices.
Because your team might
have some of those
that they want to
keep an eye on.
But Lighthouse is
super extensible,
easy to write your own audits.
Now although we've been using
it as a Chrome extension,
it's totally also
available as a CLI tool.
So let's go and check that out.
So here I've got something I'm
going to show you a little bit
later.
But first we're going
to run Lighthouse
against basically the--
SPEAKER 2: Canonical--
SPEAKER 1: --The canonical.
SPEAKER 2: PWA.
SPEAKER 1: Airhorner.com.
I think Paul Kinlan owes us
some of affiliate money for this
now.
[LAUGHTER]
But basically we're running
this at a CLI level.
It's going in.
It's running the
exact same tests.
You can see Chrome
running in the background.
And off the bat you have this
really nicely formatted report
that has all the
same info, tells
us what are time to
interactive scores like?
Do we have our service
worker registered?
Are we responding with the right
responses when we're offline?
And so on.
This will also output the
report to a file locally.
So you can go and you can
check that out if you want.
Super duper nice.
It's also possible
to use Lighthouse
as a node module in case you
want to write your own tools
on top of it.
And maybe one thing
that is worth showing
is another little
tool that Paul Irish
wrote that reuses Lighthouse's
data called Progressive Web
Metrics.
So we're going to do
is, I've pulled down
the latest version of that.
I'm just going to go and run it.
Now this is running
the exact same test.
It's spinning up Chrome
in the background.
But what should
output here hopefully,
if everything goes
OK, is a number
of different really nice
prettily formatted graphs that
show what does your first
meaningful paint look like,
when are you visually
complete, what's
your time to interactive
score, and how long it's
been since navigation started.
So you just want to
keep an eye on that.
Because you don't want your
users having to wait forever
and ever and ever and
ever and ever before they
can see and interact
with your experience.
SPEAKER 2: So the
nice thing about this
is it is just highlighting
the fact that you
can pull in Lighthouse as
a node module yourself,
run exactly the same tests.
But if there's
particular rules that you
care about or-- for
example-- maybe your team
is just working on
Service Worker support
and you just want to track
offline over a period of time
or other things
around that nature,
you can use Lighthouse
and just rip out
the particular
rules you care about
and show it in any way
that works for you.
SPEAKER 1: Yeah totally.
So another thing I'm going
to show you-- so let's
open up Lighthouse really,
really quickly once again.
I'm going to open
up Airhorner.com.
And I'm going to use
a little flag called
Save Assets on that.
So we're going to go.
And we're going to do another
one of these gathering runs,
collect all the data.
SPEAKER 2: [SINGING NONSENSE]
SPEAKER 1: All this stuff.
[SINGING NONSENSE] OK.
So it's done.
And now if I open
up this directory--
I probably shouldn't have been
using that directory for it--
I can go into Chrome.
I can open up a
brand-new timeline.
I can go and I can
load my timeline data.
I just need to pull
up my projects.
Or what I can do here--
because you know surely
Chrome supports this--
I can go over to here
and drag this into Timeline.
Oh it's so good.
It just works.
SPEAKER 2: [INAUDIBLE]
SPEAKER 1: OK.
So what you can see here
is that the trace generated
by Lighthouse is totally
openable by Timeline
in case you want to go
and inspect this further.
Super duper nice.
Lighthouse can also be used
as sort of a post-processor
for any of your traces.
So super useful for making
the best use of this data.
SPEAKER 2: Yeah.
The thing I like about
this, if you've got a CI,
you might want to save
some of these assets
over a period of time.
So if anything does happen
or start going wrong,
you've actually got the
traces to go with it as well.
So you can start
debug straight away.
Airhorner is doing amazingly
looking at this timeline.
Just because there's
basically nothing
in the app other
than one button.
SPEAKER 2: Yeah.
Which surprisingly has
had a number of bugs
over a long period of time.
SPEAKER 1: What are
you talking about it?
It just does one thing.
It's great.
[LAUGHTER]
So we talked about using
Lighthouse as a node module.
But we've been
talking also lately
about the importance of
testing on real-world devices,
focusing on
interactivity, focusing
on network connections like
3G where that's probably
what people are using
out there in the wild.
Matt is going to
show you what this
looks like on a real device
when you're trying it out
with Lighthouse.
SPEAKER 2: Yeah.
So if you go to
Lighthouse Read Me,
there's a small section like
Lighthouse with Mobile Devices.
And the really important
command is this ADB Forward TCP.
Basically all that's doing
when you run it is it
opens up a socket between
your device and your laptop.
So once I've done
that, I can just
go ahead and run Lighthouse
with Dash Dash Mobile.
And once I run that, I'm just
going to stick it on my site.
You're going to start seeing
exactly the same thing
as you've seen on desktop
where the website is reloading.
It's doing all of its auditing.
We've got the CLI
going crazy, pulling
in random bits of information.
But at the end, we end
up with the same report
as we saw from
[? ADI ?] before in CLI
that you also get from
the Chrome extension.
So we start seeing scores.
I'm not doing great
in some aspects.
But others are fine.
But yeah.
It's super handy.
Because it means if
the device is on 3G,
the test will actually
be running on 3G.
And if you got a slow device,
if anything like this scrolling
test I think they're
looking at, that's
probably going to be
affected by the performance
of the actual device itself.
So you can start
getting regular testing
of these kind of aspects.
SPEAKER 1: Cool.
So Matt's not doing
great in some aspects,
because his Lighthouse scores
are also all over the place.
And on that note, Case just
released a brand-new guide
on Auditing Web
Apps with Lighthouse
over on developers.google.com.
Please feel free
to check it out.
It's using the canonical--
SPEAKER 2: Airhorner.
[LAUGHTER]
SPEAKER 1: Of course.
Go check that out.
Try out Lighthouse.
Let us know what you think.
If you have any
feedback at all, please
feel free to file issues.
But yeah.
That was Lighthouse.
SPEAKER 2: Yeah.
Check out the links
in the description.
SPEAKER 1: Bye.
[MUSIC PLAYING]